---
title: SimpleGitWebsite
layout: default
---

Making a simple git website
-----------------------------------------

One can make websites hosted on github, using the [github pages](https://pages.github.com/) functions. 

This is a little bit more complicated than the documentation might have you believe, especially if you do anything non-standard. 

Multipage websites: a quick guide
------------------------------------------

So the goal here is to make a multipage website.

* We are going to do it by linking to different markdown pages. 
* The first thing you should know is that an extension of `md` isn't recognized by the page generator! I had to use the `mkd` extension. 
* The way I did this was to hang some pages on a front page generated by the [automatic page generator](https://help.github.com/articles/creating-pages-with-the-automatic-generator/).
* If you follow the steps, you will get a new page, that you can find at the url that has a url that contains `_your_organization_name_.github.io/repo_name`.
* It makes some folders and an `index.html` file. 
* *IMPORTANT* These files will be in a branch, called `gh-pages`. To push these you need to first checkout the branch:
```
git checkout -b gh-pages
```

and then you can push to this branch:

```
git push myorigin gh-pages
```

* You need to go into the `.html` file and add links to the `mkd` files, like this:

```
<ul>
<li>Table of contents
<ul>
<li><a href="FirstSteps">First Steps</a></li>
<li><a href="MakingARepo">Making A Repo</a></li>
<li><a href="MakingARepo">Git Websites</a></li>
</ul>
</li>
</ul>
```

* The next thing you need to do is make sure that the web pages you generate from the `mkd` files have the same style as the splash page. 
* To do this, you need to make a folder called `_layouts` and then put a `default.html` file in it. 
* The 'defualts.html` file needs to have links to the css files that the github automatic page generator has made:
```
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="stylesheets/styles.css">
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="stylesheets/github-light.css">
```
* Finally, in each of your `mkd` files, they need to lead with a title and a layout:
```
---
title: SimpleGitWebsite
layout: default
---
```